So, when people talk about blockchains,
probably the best single sentence in order to encapsulate what they do is they are
tamper-resistant databases for storing things of
value especially in an adversarial environment.
You don't want somebody to randomly be able to write themselves a million dollars.
You want to make it difficult and expensive for them to do that,
maybe so expensive that it would be easier for them to make
a million dollars honestly than to write themselves a million dollars in this database,
and that's the fundamental problem the blockchain solve.
So, among other things,
since you don't want just anybody to be able to write themselves that data,
you want it to be decentralized,
you want the power to be spread out a bit rather
than one actor being able to write themselves a million bucks.
Once you start thinking about the requirements for database to
represent money or money-like thing,
you start to get to the phenomena that we observe in blockchain.
So, decentralized, immutable, and subject to global consensus.